NODE JS ASSIGNMENT


What is NodeJS and how does it differ from a conventional browser environment?
What are the commands to install a npm package Globally and to install a package for the development environment?
Ans: npm i -g and npm i -dev
What is an Event Loop?
Ans: Event loop allows nodejs to perform non-blocking I/O operations, despite JS being a single threaded language.

What are global variables and modules in NodeJS?
Ans: Modules are basically files in NodeJS. 
What are the different types of modules and explain in one line what manually created modules are with an example in VS Code.
	Ans: 1. Manually Created Module 2. In-built module 3. External Module

What ‘In-built’ module is used to get the information about the user and user PC info?
	Ans: OS Module

What is ‘fs’? 
	Ans: File System

What is the difference between readFileSync, writeFileSync and readFile, writeFile?

Write code to make use of ‘fs’ to create a file and read a file in the directory?

 What is HTTP Module?

Create a Server using HTTP Module and console log the message: “Welcome to Achievers IT”.

What is the command to create a package.json file?
	Ans: npm init -y

What is the difference between package.json and package-lock.json file?

What are callback functions? Explain with examples.
	Ans: A function passed to another function as an argument and invoked inside the parent function.

What are event emitters? Explain with examples.
Ans: Event emitters are used to trigger events
What are Streams? How are streams helpful in accessing bigger files? Explain with an example?
	Ans: 

1) Writeable -> Used to write data sequentially
2) Readable -> Used to read data sequentially
3) Duplex -> Used to do both of the above
4) Transform -> Modifying data when reading or writing

Stream breaks a file into pieces of smaller files each with default size of around 65kb

What are ExpressJS and advantages over NodeJSr?
Ans: It is a framework built on top of Node js to build back end web applications using RESTful API.


Create an ExpressJS server, with at least 3 routes and status responses?
What is the difference between API and SSR?
Ans: 
API => Application Programming Interface
        - JSON
        - Send the 'Data'
        - res.json()

SSR => Server Side Rendering
        - Template
        - Send the 'Template'
        - res.render()

What is the name of the tool used to check APIs?
Ans: POSTMAN

